Very good.
It's been a nice one. Finally not
raining.
Sounds great.
Okay, let's wait for others. Uh let's
give them a few more minutes and we'll
start
and we'll start from practice. So
I think we'll wait for Vladimir.
So today we should start with ACL
practice.
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Actually,
hi Vladimir. So actually we can start
because you're only you are doing the
practice parts. So if someone for from
Falcrum will join in the meantime then
Yep. But basically I was waiting for you
to start. Hi Vladimir. How are you?
Good. Good. Thank you.
Okay. Uh okay, guys. Do you have any
questions to the last part to the last
week? Uh last practice or any of the
topics from last week.
Okay.
Questions from my side at the moment?
No, the only thing I want to mention is
I found sort of a way to deal with that
uh entity naming problem.
So like in the search, remember it was
showing like the format and stuff. So
there's a what was it called?
There's like a bunch of name entity name
like providers and there was one that
based it off of configuration. So I was
able to just make app.yaml YML and then
I was able to just put a bit of config
in there that said essentially
um I can probably paste it in real
quick. I don't know if it's going to
come through in the chat very well but
but essentially it was this entity name
representation key and then you give it
then the class is like the you know so
this is my entity class and then you
kind of tell it what you want for full
and short file right
or
it was app.yaml YAML.
Okay.
Yeah, that's what I I went through and
looked at like some of the core stuff
and that's where it was putting it in
all of the like the core modules. It
could probably be in any YAML file or
that was the one that that one's in Oro.
So,
basically uh things regarding the
entities, we usually have an entity
file, but you know, if that's uh
uh that's for entity name providers. So
probably for the name provider uh the
bundle that this functionality sits it
can be also that's why I asked if it's
in a because this is basically the place
for all the configuration for all the
bundles but uh for some particular
elements like for example if you'd like
to change the aliases then you do it
from entity.
Okay I could probably put this in
entity.yaml though I presume and it
would still work or are the Oro config
files more specific?
I'm not sure.
Okay.
I was looking to see if any of the
modules do that.
I go with the listener to be honest or
the creator. But that's good.
Yeah. This seemed to be how all the like
core entities were being done. So like I
looked at contacts, users, marketing,
like everything is basically using this
process to define what the label should
be or you know how to label the entity
effectively.
Yeah. Great. Awesome that you found it
and yeah. Cool.
That's really really good.
Okay guys, so uh we will start from the
practice for the ACL. So I know it was
on Friday. Uh so I'll just quickly go
through the elements that we're supposed
to do during the practice
um and give you some recap. So first
element is to add security section to
our entity. We are not going to do
ownership. So we're going to have only
two levels none and global. But we need
to add the security section after we do
this. Uh and go to any back office role.
I will add it my administrator.
uh you should see
this entity here because right now you
don't have it here. So because the ACL
is disabled for our entity and we need
to enable it. So how to enable it?
uh you need to add security section and
it was uh basically on the slide
and this first part is in our theory
slides here is the slide number six how
to enable entity per permissions. So you
need to put this part actually you have
it in the example
and
type is ACL we only support one type
group name this means back office and
basically actually we're going to do it
for usernaming type so this also seems
like a good category uh because um
account management we have here users
so it seems like also a good place for
user naming types. So basically you can
do exactly what is in this example and
it's inside default values do not forget
about this part and because we are
editing at config section then uh also
execute this command. Okay so after you
add this part to the usernaming type
entity and execute this command you
should be able to see um this entity
here on the list.
Okay. Uh and because you have it here
and with no ownership we have only two
levels. Uh now you can for example
restrict administrator from viewing uh
usernaming types and the second task is
to basically use it. So
we need to create this rule to view
usernaming type and apply it in
controller. So we will I want you to
protect index and view action. We'll
start from view
um with this rule and how to do it. You
have also on the slides
how to define anti permissions rules and
example in the controller. So in our
controller for user naming types above
the view action you need to create this
rule. Give it some ID. Remember that
this name later will be used for example
in data grid. So it's good if this name
tells you something. Then type is entity
class will be for us training usernaming
type bundle or whatever your bundle name
is and then colon and name of the
entity. So it needs to be this
particular format. Why? Because our ACL
bundle basically requires it like this
because then we have a parser and so on.
So basically you need to have name space
name of the bundle with the bundle
keyword colon and name of your entity
and for the view permission. Okay. So
now with this annotation you're actually
creating this rule and also using it on
top of view action. So now after you add
this part you don't need to refresh
anything. You don't need to do anything
else. Uh you can actually already play
around with it. So if you're logged in
as administrator, just come here,
restrict access to none. Save it of
course and then go to the view page and
you should see 403 forbidden. Okay. So
this is uh yeah. So also then later
protect data grid and basically play
around with it, right? So remember that
if you protect index then you will not
see anything. So maybe unprotect index
and protect only data grid check uh that
the fact that data grid will just be
gone. Okay.
And that's basically all regarding um
the nonoptional parts and the optional
the first optional part is uh to
I'm not sure if you have this because
this is related to optional part from
previous uh elements we had we created
on our usernaming type view page
we have a list of users users that has
that have this uh usernaming type
assigned and we're supposed to protect
this
data grid uh with
permission if I have view permission for
user entity. So the only thing uh that I
will now tell you is uh like for the
future if you'd like to search for this
rule because this rule probably exists
already. the user is a core entity and
we want to check if I have view
permission to this user entity. Uh so as
I told you we always protect all the
controllers with ACL. So you can be 200%
sure that uh index action for the user
and view action for the user are
protected with this rule. So if you want
to use it, you need to find this ID.
Okay, this is actually exactly this one
because we are in user controller and
this is view action and as you can see
our view action is protected with ACL
and this is view permission for user
entity. So this is exactly how you would
find the
ID of ACL. Just go to controller and
check this one. And with this
you need to protect this data grid. And
to protect data grids you can also come
back here. So this is only basically
using the ID of our rule and there is a
field ACL resource that you need to fill
it. So this is playing around around
with how to use ACL rules in the YAML
file. Okay. And the last one is actually
not uh is about creating ACL capability.
So you remember that we have
entity based permissions and then we
also have capabilities like this. So
this is only yes no value. So the last
optional part is to create that kind of
um ACL and for this you need to do it
inside uh this is the second
let's skip to actions
how to define action permissions so
capabilities
uh so inside ACL file you can also
create a rule so you need to give it
identifier
some label
because it needs to be displayed here by
this label
uh type this is action this goes to back
office category again this is just for
the UI to display it in in appropriate
tab uh and that's it after you create it
you can use it by the identifier so the
last task which is also optional is just
to play around with the fact that um you
can create it also from ACL file. Yes,
for the last part you're just describing
how the uh this capability is joined to
the entity on the admin panel.
It's not that's some separate uh
capability that you can create and it
will be here uh
it's like showing on the workflow. Okay,
it's after the grid showing.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Here it's uh basically
after the this part is divided in we
have entity and first we have list of
entities and if you scroll down you'll
have list of
um capabilities those
okay so it's splitted like this sections
like catalog account management
oh yeah too but if you just switch to
all then you'll have all entities first
and then all capabilities
okay
available
And this capability just yes is defined
by you. You give it a label and that's
it. And then you use it by the
identifier. Okay. So you can protect it
anywhere just by using identifier. Um
and if you use PHP code then
this way. If in yam file then this way
and if in tweak template then with the
is granted uh tweak function. And I
think that here was a low showing of
name naming information at user view
page. So this is also connected to
optional part. So on the user view page,
let's me switch to user view page.
One of the optional elements actually
first practice was to add this part and
this was created with a listener. So
this is actually to play around at first
with a creation of rule inside the yam
file and not controller and then using
it with PHP code. So
this way
uh because this part is created via the
listener which is PHP class. So
just use it in PHP code.
Yep. And that's that's it. So I'm not
sure if you have those elements because
th those are optional connected to
optional parts from previous practices.
Uh so be just make sure that you do
those and then we're good to go because
it's basically everything you need to
know for ACL.
Okay. Uh and we have like about an hour
for this. I think it should be
enough to play around with it.
And during this time, I'm here. So guys,
unmute yourself and ask any questions.
And I will stop sharing my screen. So
please open this from the email. You
have slides in the email.
Yes.
Did you raise head, Vladimir?
Yes. Yes. Um so, uh have a question
about resources.
uh uh as I've understood we
uh set up resources which can can be
reused on controller level
um
uh and also we can set up it on entity
level correct
okay you're talking about registering
some particular rule for ACL right so
you can do it in controller as
annotation
and you can do it also in ACL clim file
or you're asking about something else.
Yeah. Uh can we I have a question. Can
we set up multiple rules um
on controller level as an annotation
or it's not
if you want to it's if you want to
register multiple rules at once and then
use them. So probably better will be to
put it in uh the ACLM file. uh but yes
you can uh create multiple annotations
on the control level for example you can
use uh you can protect this controller
action with two rules right if you need
it's not a common case but I can come up
with with such a
case
once again uh so this um resource which
I register on controller level it can be
also set up on
um incl.
Mhm. Exactly.
So you have two options actually. You
can do it in controller or ACL. It's up
to you where
I I see that it's more convenient for me
to to set up it on ACL
to be to see all ACL I said for the
so the reason we have the controller
it's because we usually protect uh with
AC rules or controller actions. So
that's why we also created this
annotation. So we able to with this ACL
annotation to both create rule and use
because if you create a rule inside ACL
YAML file which is also very correct
then you need to additionally still go
to your controller and use this uh ACL
ancestor annotation to protect a
controller action with existing uh rule
but if you prefer this way yeah I can
totally understand then you have all
definitions in yam files and then you're
using them in all other places. That's
also totally understandable.
Yeah. Yeah. I I I got it. I got it. So,
uh anyway on controller level, we should
always make a reference to
protect um
um
all right. All right. Uh and this
permission uh view addit and so on. Um
it's a we have a limited type of uh this
permission. Uh
I I mean there is a list of permission
types. Uh it's uh
yeah so by default you have view,
delete, create, update and something and
yes you can create additional one and
you can do it. I will share my screen
and show you how you can do it.
You can do it with uh defining
additional we call it actually action
right so it's like view action on some
entity create action on some entity uh
and you can we had example somewhere
here
you can do it with uh
permissions file I don't remember on
which slide I had example but I had one.
[Music]
I'm probably
Yeah, I I see there is a slide entity
permissions and
yeah I I see I see
ah here. Yes. So permissions. file. This
is the name of a file. And for example,
uh if you check this file, this is how
uh it's added this
for the price list. We have this one
recalculate action additional one. So
I'm opening permissions file in IDE just
to show you that it's really super easy.
Um
rising
okay
uh so inside this y you just need to use
the sora permission name space and then
you have this identifier of your action
and it has label with this label it's
displayed later then uh here
this is the label and group name this
goes to back office and then you have to
switch so you can specify if This action
should be available to all entities and
this will be true for example for view
but actually we want it to be available
only on a price list entity. So this is
how we say apply to all false but apply
it to some particular entity. So we can
always define another action if you want
for some particular entity.
Okay. Okay. Um and uh let me share the
screen. I have one more question about
last name and
so do you see my screen?
Oh yeah.
Um yeah. So this is uh entity I've set
up ACL.
It's quite clear. Uh when I executed
command it appeared in um rows uh
dashboard.
[Music]
So
it is this username name and type it is
clear for me. And uh about uh controller
uh it's a little bit more complicated as
I've understood. Uh so when we say
entity
I've seen also action type
what's the difference because it's not
clear and also the naming.
So the naming convention is basically
this way because our core bundle is
parsing this part and fetching
appropriate entity from it. So that's
just the naming convention that you need
to use to be consistent with our core
bundle uh security
but it can be but it can be class also.
Yeah,
this is entity. This is a path to your
entity. So this is actually uh going to
username type. So first part is the
bundle which this actual notation. So
you have to pass the name space and the
name of the bundle. Then you have a
colon and you have a name of the entity.
So usernaming type is your entity class.
And then because this is uh this is the
rule that will later uh we will check
and you will be able to go to the view
action only if the user that is logged
in has a view permission to usernaming
type entity. So if you want to define
that kind of rule you use type entity
but you remember that we also have those
capabilities. So those action
permissions uh that you have only
checkbox right when you edit the role
you have list of entities and for
entities you have multiple actions like
view create etc. And then below when I
scrolled down we have also those checks
like true false. Okay. So if you a
little bit above oh those
above like marketing application
catalog. Yeah. So this is basically uh
an action. Okay. So if you want to check
some something and this is not connected
to entity. For example you want to
display button if someone has access to
generate PDFs or something. So this
would be
yeah this will be that kind of uh
element and then when you define it the
type is action and we don't have class
as and permission here because it's not
connected to entity. So basically we
have only type action and you need to
give it some label because it will be
displayed with this label in the in the
UI. Mhm. Uh and about this entity type,
when you say it is entity type,
um it doesn't create resource here
because it's already created.
Uh this resource appears here if you
enable security for entity. So with this
at config section you added this
security part and this with this part
and on the entity level inside your
entity
uh can you open entity class?
Yeah.
Yeah. So with this security section with
this part you just said that you enable
ACL for this entity and that's why this
entity is available on the list and you
can specify
uh ACL permissions for this entity per
role on the role edit page.
So this part of code uh showed it in the
UI in the role edit and then in the
controller you need to uh specify the
actual rule. So we are checking for some
particular action. So here your view
action is protected only with permission
if you have a view access to this
entity. Okay. So on entity level in the
UI when you edit a role you have
multiple actions. You have view you have
create update and so on. And then if you
want to protect some piece of code with
some particular uh with permission to
some particular action you need this
rule. Okay. because this rule is
actually checking if you have view
permission to usernaming type entity.
Yeah. And uh when we when we configure
here do checkboxes uh when we
use this uh select options we also
create behind the scene we also create a
a rule. No, you need to create a rule in
code and you are protecting particular
places with this rule in code here. You
only change uh your permission. So if
you're logged in as administrator and
you will have permission here set to
view none then you will go get 403 when
you enter the view page of usernaming
types.
Ro is a set of permission. So you here
specify
that you can access uh this entity or
not. But then in real if you want uh
this to be applicable on the index page
or on the view page of username types
you still need to in code specify that
this part of application should be
protected with this rule.
Okay. So uh I I should I should always
uh specify on control level as it's u
yeah if you remove this ACL part from
here then even if your role has access
uh doesn't have access to this entity
this part will not be protected with it.
So you can edit your role the restrict
uh view access and it will not have uh
it will not have um any action. You
still need to go to code and actually
specify that this part of page should be
protected with this particular rule.
Yeah. Uh I've already
[Music]
created a user with access to this user
type.
Mhm.
Uh so I've removed that code from from
controller 11
and it's now
uh but
so this part of page is now not even
protected with any rules. So everybody
will see it.
But if I go to usernaming
type and U
[Music]
No.
Yeah. Now you're just telling that your
Yeah. But it will not you will not see
any change because right now the view
action neither the index action nor the
view action are not protected with any
rule. So you can change your permission
anytime any way you want. It will not
have any effect here.
Okay. So I see the controller is still
open.
But grid can't because it's an entity.
It's a
Yeah, it does have a impact just not
fully. It won't let me load entities of
that type. So like the grid ends up
empty and I assume if I try to view it
would be empty as well.
Protected with this rule then uh yeah
but you probably also protected the
grid. Oh
well, I get the same result if I
So if you remove this then you will be
able to see the grid back again.
So this is it. You have set of your
permissions but for those permission to
be applied on the page you need to
protect those places of codes like data
grid view action in controller index
action in controller with some
particular rule only then application
will actually check ACL because without
those rules application will not even
check any ACL and resource will be
available for everybody.
[Music]
You can test it on the view page
easier probably.
[Music]
No, no, no.
I I think uh that when we
do update here, it creates a rule
set of rules for entity.
[Music]
Yeah. So basically if I if you set your
view to none on user naming type the
grid doesn't load because the code
behind the scenes is saying you don't
have access to the entity level to view
the entity and so it creates an empty
grid. If I go switch between I removed
all the ACL's from my controller. My
controller is completely ACL free. When
I go to the grid if I've got it set to
none I get an empty grid. If I have it
set to global I get a grid with my
usernaming types. So like
there's two levels. There's controller
in entity level ACL.
Yeah. So that's because there is also uh
this uh ACL helper and that I've shown
you you have it also on one of the
slides that some part of our code are
additionally when we're building a query
we can additionally apply ACL on top of
it. So while uh you're building a query
to the database like where's uh select
something where something you can also
kind of then parse it through the ACL
helper. So you will have your initial
query that will fetch something from
database and on top of it we'll add um
ACL permissions. So in this particular
situations this will just work because
we are using this helper but this is not
available on every part of Aro. Um so
you need to actually know how to
manually also protect something with a
rule. So how to how to create a rule. So
the rule is not created when you change
permission uh level in the role edit
page. We do not create a rule there. The
reason that we are not seeing those
entities on the data grid is because
probably the data grid builder when it's
building the select statement that is
fetching entities from database is
additionally using this PHP service
called ACL helper and is additionally
for you applying uh the ACL permission
but the rules are only built like by
you. Mhm. No, I understand. I was just
saying like out of the box there is some
extra behind the scenes things happening
based on the entity permissions like you
can also if I disable delete the delete
button goes away. So like there's other
that's that's all I was trying to say is
like how it happens
you know whatever.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And this is exactly
this ACL helper. There's there is one
service uh responsible for this and uh
it's basically checking additionally in
the PHP code right so for example when
building queries. Uh I think I've shown
you this on the search example when we
are searching in the global search in
the back office. uh also ACL is applied
there because while building query to
search index we use this H ACL helper on
top of it.
Mhm. Okay.
So yeah there is also some out ofthe-box
functionality that it's automatically
applying ACL here and there but it's
done via calling PHP services not with
creating those rules.
Yeah. So if we doing something custom,
we have to make sure to do that. And
it's a good idea to do it on the
controllers to just avoid mistakes as
well. Like I'm not
saying we don't have to do that. I was
just pointing out there was some level
of protection in case maybe you forget.
Um it does like the core is kind of
helping out and saying, you know, don't
let you do these certain things. And
also considering we did the automatic
delete, we had no way of protecting our
delete. But the core code protects it
for us if we disable the delete
permission. And if we wanted to be more
explicit, we'd have to define a delete
in our controller.
So if you define manually delete for
example for data grid because you can,
right? Yep.
And then you will need to protect it
with this ACL. Um
in yams we have this way to protect ACL.
It's a resource, right?
Uh but if you use this one that is
globally and uh created the globally
created delete button and we are
actually using this one then yes
additionally there the ACL rules are
also applied. So yes you are correct.
There are many places that we
additionally apply ACL but this practice
was all about to show you how you can
manually make sure that something is
protected with some permission.
All right. And also you can
so many options to configure.
Yeah, this ACL it's uh you have you have
options and you can also check uh
because for the menu we have this
extension that is also checking routes.
So if you protect index route with some
ACL and refresh the page this menu
element should disappear. So you can
check even now that if you protect index
um
with this rule then you will yeah
basically the menu is also kind of in
the background using the ACL for you. So
the menu element will disappear if you
don't have access to uh browse the page.
Right. So this is some additional
element that you will have automatically
and
that's just based on the path matching
because it when we specify the menu we
point it at a particular key that points
to that route. Yeah.
Mhm.
Okay.
Okay. I don't have example route but
I'll check it later. So here you have a
route training usernaming index in the
item line six. So if you protect this
controller action that leads to this
controller action. So index action in a
controller. If you protect it with uh
view permission and you will not have
access to the view permission this item
will also disappear from the menu.
Okay. So
you cannot twice create the same. If you
want to reuse existing rule, please use
ACL ancestor annotation. And to this
annotation, you only pass the name of uh
ACL ancestor and then double quotes and
inside only the ID of your rule.
without ID the only pass the name. Yeah.
Pass the identifier. Mhm.
So this means reusing existing. So if
you'd like to if you prefer to create
this rule in the YAML file then with ACL
ancestor annotation you're basically
using it
and now your index page is also
protected with this rule. So you should
not be able to go to index page and you
should not see the
element in the menu.
You can refresh and
uh just check the menu because menu goes
from here too.
I didn't
you may be
[Music]
So you need to go to some other page
like just go to main page and check the
menu.
No, there is no menu.
Uh okay. So you would need to probably
log in as administrator and just do this
for the administrator.
No, no, it's fine. I see that it's
working.
So that's if I want to protect.
So usually the index action and view
action are both protected with view
permission which makes sense because on
the index you have a list of entities.
So if you don't have view permission you
shouldn't see the list right? So this is
kind of normal that both uh view and
index action are protected with the view
permission.
All right. And same for buttons. We can
we can configure this. I mean on the
grid we have different buttons like
create update.
Mhm. And you can uh also specify
um ACL per action. So maybe not in this
particular case but if you'll have some
custom action like generate PDF or
something you can also protect
particular action with uh ACL. So you
can protect whole grid but you can also
only protect an action and annotation.
Uh I mean the keyword is the same. It's
every time it's ACL
uh rule.
Yeah. By the way uh you have said that
you have an extension for PHP store.
Yeah it's called plugin.
Uh, can you open plugins?
Mhm. And start typing or
uh not installed in marketplace. Uhhuh.
This one
it has some errors sometimes like yeah I
do see this ID error occurred but it's
still working.
You need to give it time for scan and
index everything.
We working on this plugin actually. So I
hopefully
yeah ACL resource and you have you see
it's throwing some Java errors in the
background but it's still working.
Okay.
I see. Thank you.
Uh, okay guys. So,
any questions?
Any other questions? Uh, Victor, what
about you? What's your status?
I was able to create this all CCL rules
and that's optional as well. However, I
get stuck on testing because I've tried
to create the new customer then that
issue with its login because it's uh
requiring to enter. So check the email
and mail cer was not set up on my docker
uh so stuck on this testing uh
but basically it works.
Yeah in general I I did solve this items
within the ACL.
Yeah. You can test with the
administrator role as well. You can just
change since you can change your own
permissions. It it's testable that way.
You just need to create customer. It's
not the storefront. We're testing it in
the back office.
Mhm.
So customer, this is for storefront. So,
I'm not sure what you wanted to test,
but I assume that maybe you did some
rule
there or tried to check the storefront
part of it, but for the practice, we're
just generating rules for back office
roles.
Yeah, right. So, let me
I think he was just trying to create a
new back office user with a restricted
role.
But you can test with your
with your user.
So, I didn't I didn't try to test with
my own cuz I You don't explicitly have
Yeah, you don't have permissions to
everything.
Yeah, right.
It is a bit weird. Um, but yeah, as
administrator, you have the ability to
adjust roles. So, you can change your
own role to restrict yourself.
You can change administrator role and
then you don't need to log out or
anything.
Mhm.
So, you can create new role just to
practice. You can create new user just
to practice if you want. But if you want
to test it like the quickest way
possible, just add it administrator
role. And yeah,
a second. I will show what I have there,
man.
That's my entity. Uh it's global and
And um there is my
additional permissions all say I set to
entity. So it's username and related
users
uh which is created there. One second.
But why you created this as an action?
One second. Let me
open it.
It's not supposed to be an action. It's
supposed to be entity rule.
So I have created their ACL's one for
the data grid for the one for the
related users and then assigned the same
for the uh data grid. So there I have
assigned the data grid I have assigned
uh related users
okay and can you show me your controller
because I show saw too many actions
there. Okay. So this is not supposed to
go to action because here you your view
action right now is protected with some
action. So with a checkbox uh with
capability and we actually wanted to
protect this with the view permission on
entity level.
Mhm.
So this one can you switch back to uh
the UI to the RO edit page?
Uh here your view controller action is
actually protected with those this
checkbox called user naming type index
action but you are not supposed to
protect it with this but with this here
usernaming type view global and to do it
your rule it's not supposed to be action
it's supposed to be entity and act and
please check other
some other example because you need to
specify entity for this and you need to
specify action
So no label here because we don't have
any additional label in the UI. But you
need to specify which entity and which
action. So you need to specify that it's
usernaming type entity and uh that
permission is
a view. So uh this one exactly
I thought I I just copied this ACL from
some other example.
Mhm. Yeah. Because you have two slides.
One for entity permissions and one for
action permissions.
So the entity goes to the list of
entities with this view create update
and so on. And action this is
capability. So this checkbox
truth is there. Okay, I believe that the
entity
yeah the entity format that you need to
pass here it's a bit different see you
have oro user bundle so this is
namespace plus bundle name and then you
have the entity name after column so for
you it will be training usernaming
bundle
right
uhhuh exactly and the usernaming type
this will be after the column yeah
that's
I believe with this it will disappear
those to create
and you cannot create uh twice a rule
with the same identifier. If you want to
reuse existing rule and what you want to
do here uh uh you can use ACL ancestor
annotation to reuse existing rule. So in
this case uh instead of ACL annotation
Mhm.
please use ACL ancestor annotation and
in the brackets
uh you put put only the name of your
rule identifier of your rule in double
quotes and that's it.
So delete everything and just pass
I need to reload.
Just pass the identifier. Do not set ID.
Just pass identifier. ACL ancestor open
bracket.
Okay. Yeah.
Username type. Just pass this value and
that's it.
Mhm.
So this means that you're using some
existing rule by its uh but you don't
have this rule name. Can you switch back
to controller?
Sure.
You are using training usernaming type
rule but you don't have a rule with
this. You have train. Ah okay. Sorry I
thought it was view.
I just changed it because
I missed that. Okay.
Still have those actions. Not sure when.
Probably cash.
probably
or need config update.
Um no we don't need to execute any
additional action for the ACL
to
okay pro because it was set
who knows in any case I think it's fine
so in general I had no questions on this
except the question on
so there it says that to use it in the
twig I should use is granted view entity
but it's actually view an entity. If I
want to specify something specific like
my role for the action I should use uh
then you just pass the ID of the rule.
Can you switch to the slide number? I
know probably
lower lower
where we have section for ACL lower
lower.
Stop
uh two slides below. Go back. Go lower.
Lower. Lower. Lower.
Still lower. I stopped you to too fast.
Action permissions. This and the next
slide. How to define action permissions.
Mhm.
23rd slide. Yeah.
How to check.
Oh yeah. Right.
So here you just always pass the ID of
your rule.
Okay.
So if you want to check entity
permission then you need to specify
which action on which entity. So for
example view action on some particular
entity and if you want to check this
action rule then just the identifier
okay and for the
this ACL rules could always
it's always the fire to the ACL from
there
from here or from controller because in
controller in the ACL annotation you
also specify you also create and uh
yeah I
[Music]
Okay, in general it's pretty much clear.
However, I was not able to test because
I was tried to create the new
customer test and then try to login. I'm
always getting this stuff. Uh
customer existing users um the username
the password is the same username. So
you can pick any user and just use
Yeah. Yeah, but that the storefront. So
if you want to test something on the
storefront user then you need
I have created the users within the
there
here
and I have tried to so I was not sure
why I need to get email I have removed
this confirmation token from my user and
still asking for the same password. I'm
not sure. So I'm looking for my user
which is working. I'm using to the user
which is new and I'm not getting what's
what's wrong there. Why it's asking me
for the confirmation of the email
uh for the back
office.
Yeah, for the back office. So I I did
found this confirmation token and when
I'm trying to enter with the new user,
it always saying that check your uh
email and and yeah, however, the
password is I'm sure the password is
correct. However,
it's still asking to check me email. I I
believe that I I I supposed to receive
some link with confirmation of the
email, but I'm not sure
why it's still asking for this.
You can always
create user from the CLI if you prefer.
I can reset password probably, but I'm
not sure. So, it will send the email.
But how did you create the user via the
UI
from the admin panel? Yeah, from you are
in admin panel.
H
why it's asking you for
okay still you can test it on your
admin. He has a role administrator. So
you can just edit administrator role and
play around with it there.
Okay, in any case that's something I
need to figure out why it's not working
and yeah and with other stuff it seems
that I have created the ECL from the top
so we can continue. It's already one and
a half hour I believe we start.
Yeah.
Uh okay. So since you all have
everything so I will not show you the
solution because you have solution on
your side.
Yeah guys do you want to break get up
from the computer grab something
right knife.
Okay. Yeah. So let's meet back
my time 50.
So do 350 my time
in 12 minutes. Okay,
it's okay.
Thank you.
Okay, guys. Please let me know if you're
here.
Victor Alant, are you here?
Okay.
Okay. So I'll start slowly. Uh so the
topic for today it's going to be about
uh import and export of entities and I
will show you the whole idea how this is
uh
um implemented what parts it has and I
will also uh show you in the meantime
how to register what services to
register to create import export because
during the practice session we're going
to create a very simple import export
for our usernaming type uh entity and
why I'm saying very simple because we
will just create the one that it's like
out of the box. So you will need to
register some services but there will be
almost no PHP coding because we'll use
our uh default uh PHP services for it
that sits in our core bundles.
Uh
okay.
Uh okay. So uh in general uh we use uh
Oro bundle every part of it it's uh in
orbatch bundle and part it's inside
import export bundle.
Uh and basically we were inspired by a
nail batch bundle and sprig batch. Uh
and basically we have this
exact same uh idea that we have here. So
we have a job launcher that launches a
job which is for example import or
export. Uh then this job is uh can have
multiple steps. Actually for our import
is just one step which is importing and
for export is export step but job can
have multiple steps and then each step
is divided in three parts. First we have
reader, then we have processor and then
we have writer. So basically uh the same
idea is implemented on our site. Uh so
it works as synchronously. So when you
import the CSV file with some entities,
it will be pushed to message Q and
consumer will execute appropriate
processes to do the import or export.
And if the file is big, it will be
divided in batches and those batches
will be executed uh can be executed in
parallel right you need to have multiple
consumers because if you have one then
still it will execute this batch by
batch but if you have multiple then it
can be executed in parallel. Uh and also
import export is very often used by
integration with data sync. So if you
have integration that is syncing data
between Oro and some third party
application uh we also use import export
uh functionality in this particular
case.
Uh so what about those jobs? Uh so the
jobs are basically used to trigger
import and export. Uh and for most of
the entities we will use jobs defined in
Oro import export bundle. So there are
already some jobs defined for import
export uh import validate and export
template and I will show you them in a
second. Uh and uh we will basically
reuse them in the practice session. We
will also reuse them. Uh the only
situation that I see that you would like
to create a different job is when you
would like to have for example some
custom processor.
Uh and this job always has three parts
reader, processor and writer. And the
jobs are defined inside the budge job yl
file which is then used by our import
export bundle. And
this bundle is parsing this file
registering the jobs.
So how does default jobs work? Uh so we
have
job export to CSV, export template,
import validation and import from CSV.
Those jobs are and we have also uh for
XLSX but mostly we use uh CSV here and
this strictly goes to uh the import
export that we see in many places. Let
me go to for example contacts
and here we have those buttons.
Basically in oro import export is
usually available from the index page
which makes sense because we have list
of contacts. So we can now export
contacts and import contacts and those
four jobs goes to the buttons. So export
job this is this one. Uh then inside the
import if I open it I can import. So
basically select a file
and uh import it. But import validate
job goes to this button. So basically I
can uh just validate the file. So do
everything except saving this uh import
to database.
Uh and also sometimes you have this
additional button to download a
template. Okay. Uh so you can download
uh CSV file with heathers and some dummy
data in one row. So basically the
template for our import. So we have one
two three and four and this directly
goes to export
is this job is triggered by export
button. Export template is triggered by
uh this button. Then we have import
validate
and import.
And they all have only one step.
So our jobs have only one step. There's
no need for anything else. But in case
you can create multiple steps in some
customizations then
uh they all consist of three elements.
read their processor and writer. So
basically also the name of services
because behind this this is basically a
service. So there is a PHP class behind
this. Uh and the name of services can
also tell us something. So for the
export we're reading entities from
database writing to CSV.
Uh from template we're reading data from
the some template. So demo data writing
to CSV. For import validation, we'll
reading from CSV file, but basically
writing to null because we are just
doing the validation. And for the
import, we're reading from CSV file and
uh writing to the database.
And then for each we have a default
processor that it's that has all the
implementation that you need in uh of
course if you need to do something
custom
uh then
you can implement your own processor but
if not
we'll be using actually this one. So we
will reuse uh those jobs. So after we
will create import export we will also
add buttons like those one and those
buttons will be the default buttons that
will trigger uh those jobs.
Okay. And uh in case you wonder which
service is represing
steps
uh so yes here in the steps definition
we also define a class for the step and
you can have multiple steps. So
basically we also have a service that
executes uh steps one after the other.
So in general our job has reader,
processor and writer. Reader only reads
data uh from data source in our case in
my example is CSV file or database and
then returns data row at one one row at
a time and processor does all the magic
all the job and then we have writer that
writes uh those data either to database
or CSV file. Uh so as you can see we
have strict division of responsibility.
So no processing in reader or writing a
writer only in processor.
Um
yeah.
Uh so then how to register uh this
processor?
Uh so processor will basically do
everything right? It's between the
reader and writer. So everything that
happens uh will be inside processor. And
processor is basically a service uh and
for it to be recognized as a processor
we need to register it and add a DI
container tag or import export processor
and our processor before I will show you
the definition of processor. You need to
also know that processor is also divided
in three parts. Um actually for import
we have all three parts. For export we
don't have strategy. Why? I will explain
in a moment. Uh so we have data
converter
and this data converter is uh
responsible for uh converting a heater
from our file to a complex array. Okay.
So just by the heaters it knows what
sits inside each column. And in CSV
file, the row is flat. And the data
converter knows how to create from this
flat row a multi-dimensional array that
represents our entity. So our entity has
fields but also relations. So this will
be array of arrays and so on. And data
conventor knows how to do all this.
Uh so by default uh we have a default
data converter that you can use. You
don't need to create a custom one. And
this is the one and basically data
converter knows how to convert to import
and export format.
Uh and uh it has all the
information and it also parses our heer
um because by the heer by column names
you can specify
um what values are inside. So in case
you need to change this then you can
create your custom data converter that
will extend from this abstract table
data converter and your custom data
converter for example can uh change
those heater conversion rules right so
this will be the name of our heer in
file and you can define that this will
go uh this to the sku field on our
product but this will go to the
inventory status which is unknown field.
Uh so this is how you can change
conversion conversion rules for the
heater for example. Uh so in this
example we're just doing this that's why
we created custom data converter that
extends from the default one
and we need to register it in a DI
container
and this is example of a definition. So
we are registering our service that is
extending from parent the default one
from oruro import import export bundle
and because we have some custom
implementation here we also specify that
implementation is in our custom class.
Okay. Then when a data converter does uh
his job,
we push everything to normalizers.
So normalizer is responsible uh for
creating converting entity
to an array and array to the entity to
the object. Uh so basically we have for
example from data converter we get a
multi-dimensional array and uh
our normalizer the normalized it to an
object.
So we have default stalizer for that.
This this is this guy and you can also
use it as is and it's just basically the
normalizes and
knows how to denormalize and normalize
um our data. So it has information about
uh metadata on an entity and it knows
exactly how to create uh objects from
multi-dimensional array and
multi-dimensional array from an object
like basically normalizers do.
Uh and if you'd like to
implement custom one then you can of
course do it. So you need to create a
PHP class
and then uh it extends this default one
uh and by default it will be taken for
all the entities. So if you want to
specify only some particular entity for
example for normalization then uh we
have the support normal normalization
method and you just specify that okay
this will be only for the contact entity
and inside uh basically for normalize
we're calling parent and then adding
some additional uh elements to the array
for the normalize the other way around.
So first we're changing something and
then calling parent.
So first we're changing the array and
then calling parent to create object
from it.
Okay. Uh in case you want to some
additional information
I've also given a link to symphonic
serializer because the idea it's here
the same. Uh so we have normalizers and
then we have encoders. In our case
normalizers are normalizers and encoders
this is uh this is my uh data converter.
So it converts data to some particular
um here will be data converter to array
and then to CSV file.
Okay. So so far let's take the import
example. Data converter took the CSV
file. One row knows how to create
multi-dimensional array from this row.
Then normalizer from the
multi-dimensional array created an
object for us and then this object is
passed to strategy and here strategy is
responsible for
um all the logic while processing. So
here you can do any customization you
need. Uh but most of all it's
responsible for checking uh if this
record should be inserted to database or
maybe there is a similar record there
and it should be an update or maybe you
want to delete and then add. So strategy
you can have multiple strategies and
strategy can be default one is add or
replace. So implementation of this class
will try to find the duplicate in the
database and if the duplicate exists
record will be updated if it doesn't
exist records will be inserted. Uh but
we can have also other strategies. Uh
for example if you define multiple
strategies uh for one import then here
like for the contact import we will have
this additional
drop list for the strategy. So we can
add and replace but we can only add. So
this will just
uh add all the records
um as is. Do not find the do not try to
find the duplicates. But if you have
only one strategy then basically this
drop list will not even be here.
Uh so let's say customers
So for for here we have only one
strategy to import customer. Uh so we
don't have a drop list to select the
strategy. If we have multiple then there
will be this drop list
that is here.
Uh and the default strategy is
configurable add or replace and it is
sufficient in most cases. uh and it is
basically uh trying to find duplicates
and by default it's going to find
duplicates by identifier of our entity.
So if you don't do anything for our
usernaming type this will be ID which is
primary key which doesn't make sense. So
um for example for customer user we also
don't want to find duplicates by ID.
Preferably the best will be to do it by
username or by email. Email is unique.
So maybe by email. So we have a way to
specify different identifier only for
import export per entity.
Uh and if this different identifier is
specified, this strategy default one
configurable add or replace
is actually using this custom
identifier.
And how to define this custom
identifier? I will show you in a moment.
For now, just remember that our default
strategy is aware of this custom
identifier. It's and it's handling this.
If you'd like to create custom strategy,
you still can, right?
So, you just need to create your class
that will extend for example from the
default one and do some additional
stuff. So here we actually calling
parent but also additionally setting
relation in this case between
processing some contact fields if this
is an account so some custom thing and
then you need to register it in the a
container. So your service that extends
from parent default one and it has some
custom implementation. So you need to
also specify the class with your custom
implementation.
Uh okay
the last part will be this import
template fixture. So to to be able to
display and have this button here
so we can download some example a CSV
file with a heer and just first row of
filled with some dummy data. Uh we need
to actually
uh create it. Uh so our template fixture
needs to extend abstract template
repository need to implement template
fixture interface and needs needs to be
added in the DI container with
appropriate tag. Let's see some examples
so it will be more clear
um
how to implement
uh the template fixture. So for example
this one is for coupon. you will find
plenty of examples for other entities.
So we are extending abstract template
repository from our import export bundle
and we need to implement template
fixture interface also from import
export bundle. Uh and then we need to
specify the parent class will do
almost all but we need to still fill
this with some dummy data. So the method
that we need to implement is uh what
entity to create says a coupon template
fixture. So it's coupon uh the entity
class and then fill entity data.
Uh so we are just basically feing our
entity with some dummy data.
This state um uses per coupon. This is
basically a coupon entity. So we need to
set some promotion, users per coupon,
user users per person, uh validation
dates and so on. And we're just
basically filling it with some dummy
data and that's it. Uh later in the get
data method, we will return this one
particular row by its identifier. That's
why we have here a switch and here we
are returning this particular element.
Uh so basically this goes to this small
class
and it needs to be registered.
It needs to be registered. This is
actually this part.
Uh so this is my service name which has
implementation in this particular class
here
and it is tagged with oro import export
template fixture. Okay. And here I
highlighted everything because this
template fixture is not going to work on
its own. Uh you still need to create the
export processor for it to work.
Okay. So let's see finally the processor
definitions. Okay. So we know already
that we have import and export. We can
also do import validate and export this
template that we created here. And for
all those four uh parts you need to have
a processor. So we have four types of
processors. Import validation, import,
export template and export.
And for example
uh this is for contact. Okay. So those
processors um we have two import
processors and this is connected with
the fact that we have two strategies. So
we cannot have one processor with
multiple strategies that's why we we
declared both and as you can see there
is no class anywhere here. So there's no
custom
implementation for those processor
processors. We are just basically
reusing parent class that sits in
autoimp import export bundle and um we
can use this uh symfony
um feature here that you don't need to
create empty PHP class that will extend
from parent and basically
just be empty. Uh so here we just need
to register our service and this is our
custom service that extends from parent
and we don't need to specify any PHP
code here. It will just in the
background be the service that has
implementation in parent and do not have
any custom
PHP code. So everything will be taken
from our parent class
for the import processor. Um normalizers
are set uh by default normalizer is set
inside our parent classes. So you don't
need to bother about setting normalizer
um until you don't have a custom one.
uh you need to set a data converter for
our input processor and a strategy.
Uh data converter first needs to be
created. So for the contact
it's here. As you can see here again we
don't have anything custom. So we don't
have PHP class behind this other than
the uh parent one. Okay. So this is my
data converter that extends from parent
and I don't have any customization. So
no PHP code no additional PHP code uh
behind this. Uh then strategy also needs
to be
uh defined. So this is my service. It
extends from parent the default one
configurable at or replace and that
would be sufficient. So the name of the
service and extending from parent but
actually in this particular case we have
some customization.
Uh so we have class and some additional
methods inside but normally if you use
just the default
you need to register your ser service
and
say that it extends from parent default
configurable add or replace and then set
it in your processor.
Uh then inside import processor uh we
need to tag it with oral import export
processor tag. This is why um this
particular service will be recognized as
an import export processor. Then we need
to pass the type. So this will going to
be an import type
entity contact. So we're going to import
contact entities and we also need to
give it some alias. Later on we will uh
use this alias for example to display um
to create configuration for the buttons.
So it needs to have an alias. Then we
can reuse one processor for the
different type like import validation.
Why? Because import and export
validation are doing exactly the same
job and they should do exactly the same
job. The difference is in writer, right?
Because for import we are writing to
database for import validation we are
not writing anywhere but uh writer is
not part of the processor. So here we
actually can reuse it. That's why you
see a second tag again this is a
processor. So we have our import export
processor tag type is import validation
which entity we want to import and we
need to give it some alias
because we have different strategy
that's why we have second import
processor but as you can see it pretty
it's similar just strategy it's
different
than this one normally you will have
only one import processor
and for export
uh first is for the exporting only. So
it's this is the default parent
processor export abstract. Uh here we
don't have a strategy because we're not
doing anything with the data other than
uh data converter and normalizer do. So
we don't have any additional processing
any like sending emails or assigning
uh additional values anything like that.
We're just basically exporting data.
So we have only a data converter and
data converter also this is actually the
one uh that is in the import processor
we can re reuse exactly the same one. Uh
we need to tag it with the processor tag
so application will know that this is
import export processor type is export
which entity we want to export and give
it some alias
and here uh for the export template. So
for downloading some um example CSV file
with dummy data we need to have separate
processor because the data converter is
not the same because first one uh in the
first we have data from database and
here we have data from our PHP code from
some file
uh and we have dummy data here that's
why we need to create separate processor
uh so different data converter and this
one
has a different parent.
Again, no customization here. Just
reusing parent classes that we have in
Ouro bundles
and we need to tag it with processor tag
type export template which entity and
give it some alias. Okay. So, normally
you will have two export processors and
one import processor and you're good to
go. And basically your import export is
already working. Uh but we still need to
have uh buttons to be able to
execute import or export.
Okay, just to summarize for the import,
we have CSV file reader. Then we're
doing the import and writing to null
because it's just validation.
For the real import the difference is in
writer. So we are writing to database.
For the export the difference will be in
reader. So for exporting template we
read dummy data from fixture
and for normal export we're reading data
from database.
Uh okay before we go to buttons
let me show you how to specify for
example different identifier for import
export. Um so everything here in code
will be inside this at config field
annotation on our entity. So above each
field you have this at config field
annotation and in the uh section import
export you can specify a few elements.
First of all, you can specify the heer.
So header in CSV file can be specified
here. If not, we will take the
translation. You can specify order. So
you will have multiple columns in CSV
file and you can reorder them. Then we
have this identity uh mark and this will
mean that this particular field will act
as identity field for the import export
but for for the import export only.
Also, if you don't want to have some
field in the CSV file, you can mark it
as excluded.
And um we are also in the import export
allowing you to import and export
relations. Okay, so we have contact.
Contact has a phone. Phone is a separate
entity which has label, phone number,
prefix or whatever. Uh and in this case
here we can specify how this related
entity should be exported. For example,
if it's full, then the whole related
entity, so the whole phone fields will
be exported. If we specify short uh then
only identity fields of this related
entity will be in our export file
and we can do it in the code preferably
always do it from the code, but also
it's possible to do it uh through the UI
uh in the entity management. So I can go
to system entity management. Let's go to
my contact.
I will open any
row and import export.
Uh column name if we don't pass then uh
translation will be used. So usually
it's empty. Uh column position
in contact export we have a lot of
columns so that's probably it's so high
uh if this birthday field should be
identity field. No and we don't want to
exclude columns
and how to do it from the
entity file.
Okay. So above every field you can
specify inside the config field
annotation
uh in the import export section for
example order. Okay. So if you want to
order columns this is how to specify it
and here is also order and here too. uh
then this is lead and when we're going
to import leads we don't want to check
for duplicates by ID because while
importing we will actually not even pass
this ID uh because this field will be
automatically created on insert
uh so for the import export we want to
specify that
the name of our lit will be actually our
identifier
So while importing leads if there will
be any leads already in our database
with this name then it will be updated
and this is how to sp specify that this
particular field it's going to be as an
and it's going to be our identifier for
import export and yes you can create
like with primary key we can uh create
multiple fields to be primary key here
you can also specify that for example
name plus name prefix
are identifier. So in this case just
specify identity true here and here.
Uh okay what we have more short uh so
either full true or short true or short
false. So you have options
uh lead has a relation to a contact
entity. That's a separate entity. And
now when we export leads uh in this
export we don't want to have every field
from our contact. We just want to have
identity fields. That's why we specify
short true. So the rel related fields
our contact will be um exported in
shorten version.
And then what we have
more
[Music]
order order.
Oh, here you have full true. So for
address, we actually want to uh export
all address fields.
Uh create that. We don't want to export
or import it at all. Right? So excludes
is true. And that's basically all the
options that we have here.
Okay. And link for the future reference
for the documentation
[Music]
of those fields. But basically this is
exactly what I've shown you. Yes.
So we we can override this configuration
or
uh can you repeat? You can override this
override this in admin panel. I mean if
you want to create that column can we
enable it or not in admin panel?
Yeah here you have only those four
options. So the header name position you
use as identity uh exclude include.
So you can also here say that you want
to exclude this field from import
export.
Okay.
Uh but preferably always do it from the
code some like here.
And if you want to do it on a core
entity then for this we have this uh to
write migration similar to the one that
you actually created to modify the label
for entity.
So that's actually this kind of uh
migration.
Okay. So uh right now you know how to
configure what to export uh on our
entity. We have all the processors um
data data serializers uh sorry data
converters and serializers in place. And
basically our import export is working
but we still need to have a way to
execute it. And for this we need to
create uh or display anywhere import
export buttons. And for the import
export buttons we have um some ready
elements for you. Uh so to display those
buttons like I see it here
those are displayed with a template that
is called uh button configuration HTML
tweak and sits in our or import export
bundle. So uh on our index uh page we
will just basically include this
template and this template requires uh
us to pass the configuration alias
because those buttons needs to know uh
what jobs uh to execute uh with what
which processors etc. So when I click it
appropriate job with appropriate
processor will be executed. So we need
to pass uh this configuration
and this configuration um is the only
PHP class that you need to implement. So
we need to implement PHP uh class uh it
needs to extend this interface with a
very long name and it needs to be
registered in a DA container with this
particular tag which is or import export
configuration.
So first you need to create this uh
configuration provider. This is
basically a PHP class that's going to be
our service and it implements import
export configuration provider interface.
And this interface will force you to
implement get method
and in here you just need to return
import export configuration and pass
some
information. So under field entity class
uh what entity we're going to import or
export for us this will be usernaming
type then
export processor alias and this goes
directly to this alias this is my export
processor
so this alias the example is not the
same but this will be this alias then
import processor alias and if you have
then also export template processor
alias
So those are the aliases that we added
to our processors when we were
registering it. We're registering them
in here.
Uh yeah, and that's basically it. That's
our configuration. You need to define it
in a DI container.
So this is my custom configuration
provider implementation in here and we
need to tag it with oro import export
configuration tag and give it some
alias. Then this alias
on our this is index html tweak inside
navigation buttons block we want to
include this template buttons from
configuration and only pass the alias of
our configuration file. So this here.
Okay.
So very short configuration class
register it and give it some alias and
then import this template that will
render buttons and just pass the alias
of our configuration and you will be
good to go.
Um yeah and that's basically everything.
So in a moment when we will do the
practice you'll see that creating um
this default import export it's really
mostly registering services.
uh the only class for the nonoptional
part that you will need to implement is
this configuration provider other you
will just register services and that's
it
and some potential issues that you may
have or maybe not uh potential issues
but kind of ideas and that's pretty
obvious I think that if you need to use
custom data format then do it with data
converter
Um and uh at some situations you may
find the import export too slow. Uh it's
not a common case but for example when
we import price lists
this is doing a lot of stuff inside. So
if you want to skip using this uh
normalizers
uh
uh strategies etc. you will need to
implement your own processor and work
directly with debug there. Okay. So we
do have some projects actually I was a
part only of one then we where we
overrode the default import export for
price lists because it was too slow and
they had really custom price list per
each customer and so on. Uh so we
basically reimplemented the whole
processor. We're not using uh data
converter. We're not using normalizer.
We're not using strategy. We're not
working on objects. Uh we are just have
plain SQL there. So in this case, this
will be a custom processor
documentation for everything that we
talked about
and uh best practices. So if you need to
import some entities into Oro and we
have already built in uh import export
then just go ahead and use it. Uh but we
don't have import export for all the
entities. Um
so in this case if you're sure that you
will import something only once you
don't need to implement the whole import
export. can still just go and create a
command and just basically import it
once from some file.
Uh okay. Okay. Then another situation
that uh we don't have out of the box uh
import export in place and you need to
implement it but you are sure that you
will never reuse data converters
normalizes strategies uh then you can
also create a custom processor
but and also remember that whenever you
use custom import you need to validate
data on your site because if you use our
import
and all the validation that is specify
for example in the validation YAML file
that I've shown you last week this
validation will be in place so will be
executed if you use our uh our way but
if you have something custom just don't
forget uh to validate the entities
before you inject them to database
and you will see that in the practice
that the standard default import export
is pretty easy to set and we
will not have a lot of PHP coding like
almost none. Uh but later on if you'll
try to customize it then it might be
hard at the beginning. So in case you
will have that kind of tickets in your
project just add some a little bit more
buffer that normally uh for other
tickets if it goes to import export.
Okay, before we go to practice, do you
have any questions?
So, let's
have a question. So, the most common
case on my project was to set up the
crown job and to do export by chron job.
Um, how can I reuse this export in my
command maybe?
Mhm. So this command uh this uh
basically our button here this export or
import is executing a job and sending it
to message Q. So you can basically send
this message with message producer on
the message Q the same one
and the format of this message I can
check in message Q.
uh format of this message you can check
uh with uh inside import export bundle
with the export processor because it's
sending messages. It's sending the main
message. You can just basically check
what's exactly happening when you click
this button.
Okay.
So I can click it and I can show you in
database
what's the job. So I clicked it and now
as a result
I have a job. I have many jobs.
This is the one. So as you can see this
is a job name entity export to CSV
processor alias or a contact and so on.
So this was pushed when I clicked the
button. So you would need to do exactly
the same and we unfortunately don't have
a message Q topic on this uh on this
training which would be really nice to
have because it's a cool thing but to
send those that kind of messages we use
message producer
producer I hope I have it.
Oh my god.
Okay. Maybe different.
I can send you example maybe after the
break. Okay. I don't want to
Okay.
Basically it's a service that you use
that has sent message and you need to
pass appropriate elements there and this
message to each one one more question.
So um as you see it happens a
synchronously and um after after import
export um export was processed then we
get link to download file or what we get
uh so uh you need to start consumers so
this message will be processed because
it's through the message Q and at the
end you get uh this file is generated in
um
fire data in import export here and
additionally you get an email.
I can actually process it. Wait a
moment.
I'm just starting my consumers
cons.
Okay,
it's doing something. Still doing
something. I had too many messages here.
Yeah, it's empty. And at the end, I get
an email. Okay.
Export performed successfully. 76
contacts were exported.
And when I opened it in new tab, it
downloaded CSV file. And this is my
export file.
Uh,
okay. So, this is what you get. email
for the user that basically clicked the
button. And also if for some reason
mails are not working on your local
instance, then you can always uh check
it here in the var data import export.
Uh yeah, at the same time emails have a
limit
of the attached of the attachments.
[Music]
You mean the the size?
Yeah, just a link. Uh, yeah, it's
attached
here. It's just a link.
Link. Okay. Got it.
Right. Got it.
Okay guys, so let's do almost 20 minutes
break and we will start the practice
today and finish it tomorrow.
So yeah, let's take a break. Let's meet
back at my five.
Okay guys, please let me know if you are
here.
Okay, do you know what happened with
Vladimir? Is he going to join us or
not today?
I mean,
not sure. I'll reach out and see. Do you
know Victor?
Yeah, because he just disappeared. So,
basically, I have answers uh for the
questions about how to trigger uh from
the PHP for example to export
uh something and I've pasted on the chat
here and he will just not see it. So if
you can just share this
uh with him that would be nice.
Okay, I'll see if he's gonna jump back
on otherwise I can copy it over.
Okay, I will start sharing my screen and
the practice will be
[Music]
okay.
Uh so for the practice I actually I've
given you the examples to exactly the
thing that you need to do on your site.
Uh so you don't need to search for it.
So I've provide pro I've provided you
with example for the simple things
exactly the one that you will do for
import export. So at the end of doing
the nonoptional part
you should see on the usernaming type
index page those two buttons
and under the import file file you will
have both validate and import file. You
will not have download import template
yet because this this one is actually
the optional part. Okay. So you will
have all the others. So you'll be able
to test it and because you will not have
a way to download some dummy template
then the best way will be to do the
export and reuse the CSV file for import
just remember the to remove the ID
column because you don't want to import
ID you can but basically don't
uh okay so how to do this import export
first you need to
um
register some services for data
converters, serializers and processor.
You will not have any custom thing here.
You will just reuse our default
processors, data converter and
serializer and strategy. And this will
be like here
this is example for the tax.
So for the data converter you don't need
any custom things. So we just register a
service and make sure that the parent is
our default one. So data converter
configurable
uh for the strategy also no
customization. So just make sure that
the parent is configurable add or
replace this default one. Uh then the
processor for export only one you don't
have export template yet. parent is our
export abstract processor and you need
to set data converter and this is
exactly the one that we just registered
here and you need to tag it with this
tag. This is type export. Here you need
to pass our entity usernaming type and
give it some alias and then register
import processor parent is different one
that for here we have import abstract
here we had export abstract. So remember
that this is different parent data
converter that we just registered and
the strategy
that we registered here and then two
processors because uh two tags because
you can reuse the same processor for
both import and import validation. So we
have two tags both are tagged as
processor first is import second import
validation and they both import our
entity for us. This will be usernaming
type and also we need it need to give it
some alias. As you can see alias needs
to be unique but only in scope of
uh processor type. Okay. So you don't
you cannot have two import processors
with this alias. But they can be the
same for import validate import and
export. Probably that's the easiest way.
And believe me or not but with all this
you have already working import export
for usernaming entity. you just don't
have a way to execute it. And the second
part is to create a way to execute it.
And for this you need three elements.
First is configuration provider.
And this is this simple class that
implements this interface. And you need
to implement the get method in which you
return the field entity class export
processor alias and import processor
alias.
You need to register it in a DA
container
like this. So you give it a name. You
can use uh class name as the name of the
service and you need to tag it with oro
import export configuration and give
some alias and this alias later go and
edit index html tweak of our
this HTML tweak and import those the
template.
So inside navigation buttons block so it
will go exactly to the top here of the
page.
uh just include our base template and
pass the alias of the configuration that
you just created here and then those
buttons should appear in here and you'll
be able to click it. Uh and remember to
uh start consumers because it will all
happen through the message queue and
that's basically this part. Second part
is to
um practice the fact that if you add any
validation
for example title and format must not be
empty and you do it in validation uh
yaml file the one that comes from
symfony then you you will also have uh
validation errors in import export if
your CSV file has uh bad values inside.
Okay. So this is just to practice uh the
validation and uh sec the second
optional part is to add this button to
download some example template. Uh right
so for this actually uh
follow the slide because all the
information are really on one slide.
Import template fixture. So example of
the fixture file how to define it
and do not forget
about adding this additional parameter
to the configuration file that you
created in
nonoptional part. So in case uh you will
have time to do this part then you also
have hints but more here on this slide
from the theory.
Okay. So we have time we have like about
two hours for this. So today will start
tomorrow we will have still some time to
finish it. So don't worry if you don't
finish today that's totally normal. Um
yeah.
Hi Vladimir,
I will go through the
first slide for you once more.
So the we want to create import export
for our usernaming type entity and at
the end on our index page of our
entities will have those buttons and
they will trigger export and import. For
the import you will have validate and
import file. You will not have download
import template. This was this last
optional task. And so for non-optional
parts you will just have everything
except this. So for testing a good way
will be to export uh this and use this
exported CSV file as a template for
import just uh remove the ID column and
that's it. And here you have example how
to what services to register to create
import export for usernaming type. So
this will be data converter no custom
PHP code. So just extend parent strategy
the same and then register export
processor that uses this data converter
that we registered in here.
uh tag it with processor tag type is
export uh specify entity this will be
usernaming type for us and give some
alias and for the import processor
parent is import abstract also no custom
PHP code set data converter the one that
we registered here
set strategy
the one that we registered here
and two tags because we can reuse this
processor for both import and import
validation. So we have two tags both are
processors. First is import second
import validation and also we need to
specify entity. So it will be usernaming
type for us. Uh and you need to pass an
alias. Alias needs to be unique but in
terms of uh type of the processor. So as
you can see here we have basically the
same alias because this is export this
is import this is import validation.
Okay. And with this you have working
import export in place. You just need to
have the way to execute it. And for this
we need to do those three elements.
First create configuration
uh that implements this particular
interface. And basically you need to
return uh field entity class. So here
will be usernaming type because we want
to import export usernaming type import
and export processor aliases the one
that we added here.
Okay.
And that's it. Then you need to register
this uh configuration in a DA container.
So just tag it that this is import
export configuration and give some alias
and then this alias you will use
here.
So you need to edit index html tweak of
our usernaming types.
inside block navigation block uh
navigation buttons block. So this will
directly go to this part of this page
here on the top right
uh just include the template that we
have in core bundle and pass the alias
of the configuration file that you
created here. So this will be this alias
and with those two elements you should
be able to see those buttons here and
import export should work. Do not forget
about consumers because it's happening
through the message queue.
Okay. So that's it. Uh so please start.
We'll have uh time to finish tomorrow.
So yeah, just please start. And again,
please open this from the slides. So
you'll have a way to click those links.
And as always, I'm here just muted. So
if in case you need me
just unmute yourself and speak.
Yes.
Uh let's talk on this stuff.
So it looks like have created anything
that is specific there. Very not there.
there but still cannot see the buttons.
So it's
so I I have created
uh import export there have specificated
all this converter strategy
and
okay I'm just briefly checking
everything
actually this one doesn't work
correctly. Uh yeah,
but uh I don't think it's the reason why
it's not appearing.
Yeah, but let's check everything step by
step and then we'll
see.
Okay, then you have this auto import
export configuration.
Um
can you show me your provider
configuration provider? Yes. Um,
okay. And the
I didn't entity
there was not in the sample. So the
fields I mean it's the position and the
type.
No, you don't need to do this. You don't
need to do this.
Okay.
Okay. And you registered services where
uh because you register services in
services yaml file you can divide it
into separate file but uh this needs to
be on the same level as resource.
Actually I can see there is an extra tab
probably that is the issue as well. But
you still need to load those services.
So same as you load services YAML file
like this.
Yeah,
that's what I was expecting cuz I I I
was not sure. So I saw that this import
were doing this stuff for me.
Okay. So in Aura we have this um so
everything actually it's a service. So
you need to put it in services yam but
because we don't want to this services y
to be very very very big we just always
divide it into separate file and we
normally call it input textbook yam so
you just need to load it with the DI
extension you have the dependency
injection extension the file that it's
loading services y
can you open dependency injection
directory in your just
just open the dependency injection
directory
And here is the file that is loading
services. So you also need to load
import export. And it's good if those
import export will be not inside or subd
directory because that's not a file.
That's basically
cell phone file.
So just move the import export one
above and
okay and load it uh inside the training
username. Those services need to be
registered as well.
But those services will be registered.
So this is exactly the same file as
services. Yam you just created a
separate file.
I just wondering so in the sample I I've
used from there I believe. No not there
but
the text example there I believe.
Mhm.
Yeah. So in protect okay it's not
yes it's in resources config and this is
basically because services yaml is very
big. So we just divide those services in
multiple files but this is exactly the
same file as services yaml.
I got
so you can even put all those
definitions in services y if you want.
But basically it's good to have them in
separate one. That's why we always have
it in separate file. That's why in the
example you saw it as a separate file.
That makes sense then
cuz I was how it's supposed to. So I I
did miss this. It's not in a because I
thought it's on a but it's not the
example
and I was wondering probably already
creating services for them for this but
it's not the aura stuff.
Yeah, now it's there.
Mhm.
And then I need to configure the fields
for understood.
You don't need to. You will have some
default values. So by default everything
will be exported and the order will be
I'm not sure what order you will have
some custom order and hithers will be
taken from translations. So
yeah, I don't think it will be there
because I don't have the consumers.
Probably I can run it separately, but
it's not conf yet.
And to run consumers,
I know
uh this is only consume. So it's a
message Q consume. You can grab by
consume
or a message key consume. This one
and preferably if you execute this is
happening always this uh when you
starting something because you probably
stopped consumers. So after you stop
manually or just look out then
uh if you execute this command can you
execute it with double v so minus vv so
then you will have some
actually we already have some error
cannot run jobs in
too much too much vi
okay can you stop it and just
Okay, it's still doing something. You
probably had a lot of messages.
Yeah.
I had the same when I executed mine
during while I was sharing screen. I
also had some messages on message c
Okay.
Uh, can you check now the email or this
[Music]
under data
folder
v data import export. Okay. It looks
like
we're right. Mhm. Yeah. So that's this
and those fields which we had there like
so it's not necessarily to to set up the
entity for each field which export not
to export. So I thought you told the ID
should should not be exported
actually exported you can export but
when you import you can also import with
ID but doesn't it doesn't make sense
because this is supposed to be
automatically generated value. So but it
can be in the export if you need but if
you want to omit it. Yes. This is
actually example where you can use this
at config field annotation and put this
configuration. Uh
yeah right
exported false or something like this.
And by the way if if consumers working
as normally so those consumers should be
started as the chrome or it should be
started
no that's a separate CLI command. So you
just started with this particular
command and locally you will do it
manually on the server there will be a
supervisor
configured to execute this particular
command.
[Music]
I got him. Okay then I switching to the
optional part.
Okay.
Uh I have a question. Mhm.
Um what I see that this import export
file configuration is in uh config
directory. Uh but some
uh so the question why it's not in aura
usually you showing us configuration are
ino directory
but that's not oral uh configuration or
anything specific to oro it's you are
just registering services in a DI
container in a symphony DIA container so
you can put it directly to services yam
if you prefer we internally always
create a separate file for it because we
want to have those definitions in
separate file. But this file is exactly
the same as services.yaml.
You can have multiple files like this
call them differently. You just need to
remember to load it inside the
dependency injection extension file. We
have this PHP file that is loading
services and you need to additionally
load this one.
Okay. Also and another question about
that tags. Um
how how can I found uh where they are
that used?
Um it's not clear for me what values
said there and there in text and or just
follow the examples.
So basically in each topic I was showing
you classes and there were some tags
that you need to uh register those
services with uh for oral application or
symfony application to register to
recognize those services as some
particular elements. So I don't think we
have any list like all the tags and to
which part of functionality they they
they go. we don't have documentation in
this uh format. We rather have topic by
topic like I was showing you like import
export and then we'll have API
processors and in each topic like each
service has its own tag. So um
those tag is actually up to us. So when
we created implementation of import
export, we decided to name the pro
processor tag with this particular tag.
Uh so there's no other way just to kind
of remember it or check in code
later when you will want to create this
again. So check in code what is the
exact tag
basically by this tag. And our
functionality works with the service.
And
you can list you can use debug um you
can use the cli command to debug um
container to list for example all
services that are tagged with this
particular tag. So you'll have a list of
all the import processors for example.
This you can also do.
Yeah. But uh as I've understood uh tag
has also functional
meaning. So it is used value is not just
uh for information or
uh no later our bundles uh we can by the
stag fetch all the services that have
the stag and then for example register
them somewhere. For example, if we'll
have a service that should keep
collection of all the import providers,
then we can basically get a container,
get all the services tagged with this
tag and we'll have the list of all the
uh import
export processors.
So it's
like compile collections.
Yeah. So this isformational plus this is
probably and for sure used somewhere in
core bundles because those core bundles
recognize the service as a processor
because of the tag.
Same as for all the symfony elements
also like you create symfony form type
then the form type is also tagged with
some particular tag because later
symphon just takes all those services
tagged with this tag and treats them as
as as form types but this is always
connected to some functionality but this
will be based on the tag so
it's hard to prepare this Please
Vladimir
I actually can show you how this
particular tag is used.
Okay.
So maybe those will clear this
particular tag. Uh so for the import
export um first we do have a registry
where you and you need to register your
processor inside this registry because
this registry keeps the collection of
all the processors and later uh when we
are fetching some particular we're
fetching it by the entity and by the
type. So we actually need to register
all the processors
and this is happening uh here. So we
have register processor method and it's
actually executed uh in the compiler
pass. So when the dependency injection
container is built, we are fetching all
the services tagged with this tag. So
we're taking all those services that
have this tag and for each we are uh
executing this register processor method
in our processor registry. This is how
all those processors, all those ser
services that are tagged to be
processors are getting to our processor
registry and we have collection of all
and by entity. Okay. Now we have all
those processors and later
um
you can we are just fetching appropriate
processor from this processor registry
by for example entity and type. Okay. So
this is how this tag is used. If your
processor is not tagged with this tag
then it will not be recognized as a
processor here and you not will be
registered will will not be registered.
So you'll not be able to use it as a
import export processor.
Okay. So all these texts are a part of
the comp compilation process. Uh I'd say
if I need to find any tech I should go
to dependency injection compiler and
very high
will be to easier will will be to find
another service that is also import
export processor and check tag there
because not always everything is comp in
compiler pass sometimes those tagged are
tags are and collections because here
while registering we're doing some
additional data so we need to call this
methods to register uh processor
Okay. But sometimes if you just need to
pass a collection of taxed services as
they are because here we're doing some
additional logic, you can also um
use it this way. Okay. So uh as a fourth
argument of my controller in this
particular class, I am passing all the
services tagged with this tag. this
annotation exclamation mark and tagged
iterator iterator gives us the
collection. So basically yeah the
collection so all the services tagged
with this tag. So this is another way of
using a tag. So actually that's why I
said that is better if you go topic by
topic. So in import export I just told
you that for the processor you need to
tag it with some tag. So next time you
will want to do it just find another
import export processor and check what
tag it's using because here you can just
sometimes just not not find
here one two three four and this is one
two three four and this is basically
yeah some array of elements that's
All right,
guys. Do you have any questions
right now? We'll have uh some more time
tomorrow to finish the practice, but do
you have any questions
uh in this particular moment?
Nothing for me.
Okay. So, thank you so much for today
and yeah, see you tomorrow. We're going
to continue this practice. So, yep.
Thank you. See you.
Bye.